---
process_number: 100-F70
title: QGIS_250130
author: Paulina Salinas Ruiz
created: 2025-01-30
modified: 2025-01-30
review_period: 3 years
---

**Purpose:**

This document describes the basic functionality of QGIS and how it fits within the Marine Data Centre processes. QGIS is a free, open-source GIS software that provides a comprehensive set of tools for spatial data visualization, analysis, and management. It supports a wide range of vector and raster formats, integrates with web services, and allows users to customize workflows through Python scripting and plugins, similar to ArcGIS Pro.

QGIS enables users to perform advanced geospatial analysis, create high-quality cartographic outputs, and manage geospatial databases. It supports integration with PostGIS, GeoServer, and other open-source geospatial tools, making it a flexible alternative to proprietary GIS software. The platform also offers a user-friendly interface, allowing both beginners and advanced users to work with spatial data efficiently. We normally use this software to produce maps that are normally used in reports, newsletters, or specific projects.

**Key Features:**

- Multi-format support – Work with shapefiles, geodatabases, and web services (WMS, WFS).

- Customizable workflows – Extend functionality using plugins and Python scripting.

- Spatial analysis tools – Perform geoprocessing, network analysis, and raster processing.

- Cartographic design – Create high-quality maps with advanced symbology.

- Open-source & community-driven – Benefit from an active global user and developer community.

**More Info:**

- [QGIS](https://qgis.org)

- [Data Centre non-interactive maps](https://maps.sogdatacentre.ca/search?collection=document)
