**Purpose:**

This document describes the basic functionality of GeoServer and how it
fits in within the SGDC processes. GeoServer is a free, Java-based, open
source server that allows users to view and edit geospatial data. It
allows for great flexibility in map creation and data sharing by using
open standards set forth by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC).

Implementing the Web Map Service (WMS) standard, it provides an HTTP
interface for requesting georeferenced map images from one or more
geospatial databases. A WMS request defines a geographical layer and an
area of interest to be processed, with the response being one or more
map records in an image format (JPEG, PNG, etc.) Geoserver conforms to
the Web Coverage Service (WCS) and Web Feature Service (WFS). It is
designed to simplify remote access to coverages, such as raster format
images. Unlike the WMS standard that returns static maps rendered as
images, WCS provides data with its original description and semantics
for interpretation. It conforms to WFS by returning vector data,
encoding and transferring information in Geography Markup Language.
Users have access to these spatial data and can create, update, and
delete.

Geoserver also uses the Web Map Tile Service standard to split published
maps into tiles for ease of use by web mapping and mobile applications.
It also returns vector data to use OpenLayers and Leaflet which, when
combined with GeoServer, provide an open source solution for any mapping
needs. In summary, the focus of GeoServer is to facilitate the use and
support of open standards, allowing anyone to quickly share their
geospatial information in an interoperable way.

**Key Features:**

- Supports open standards like WMS, WFS, WCS, WPS, facilitating
  integration with other GIS systems and applications.

- It can connect to a variety of spatial data sources, including PostGIS
  databases, shapefiles, GeoTIFF, and others.

- Capable of displaying data of applications such as Google Maps, Google
  Earth, Microsoft Bing Maps, and MapBox

- Capable of connecting with ESRI ArcGIS

- Works well with other open-source tools such as QGIS, OpenLayers,
  Leaflet, Python, etc.

**More info:**

<https://geoserver.org/about/>

![](media/image1.jpeg){width="7.970833333333333in"
height="4.486805555555556in"}**SGDC GeoNetwork Workflow:**
