**Purpose:**



Metadata in GeoNetwork is exclusively ISO-19115/19139 compliant. Since we simultaneously work with modelling and mapping data, we tend to have a copy of local data. When the data are external to PSF, we link the metadata record to the site containing the data. This avoids data overload, and it gives credit to the original data providers. This document describes the basic functionality of jNAP and how it fits in within the SGDC processes.



We create the initial draft of the metadata using jNAP. The "j" implies it is written in Java, and the "NAP" means it implements the North American Profile and it follows the ISO standard very closely. We normally use three official thesauri for metadata keywords. The first thesaurus is the DFO place names for Canada. The second and third thesauri bring theme keywords: the Global Change Master Directory, and the Government of Canada. When conducting a search, GeoNetwork searches the whole record, so we don't believe keywords add much value but we do it anyway. jNAP can accommodate other international thesauri and other profiles although we try to stay with the three thesauri mentioned above.



Once the metadata record is created, we need to validate it. There are two ways to validate the metadata before uploading, using Kernow/Saxom or validating them directly in jNAP, which is the most used option.



Finally, we upload the metadata record with accompanying files to GeoNetwork. We use the GeoNetwork editor to perform a file validation, and then add materials such as data, links to external websites, and thumbnails.



**Key Features:**



- Machine independent (java application).



- Graphical interface.



- Bilingual -- English, French.



- Creates metadata compliant with the North American profile (but using gml, not gml/3.2).



- Extensive help appears during hover over field label.



- Built-in thesauri for theme (GCMD v6 and Gov of Canada keywords) and place (Canada locations)



- automatically builds a contact list (contact.xml) that can be moved to other application installations, reducing manual data entry.



- Performs metadata record generation for dataset or service applications.



- Graphics overview links and data online links can be added within jNAP.



- Data Quality Reports and Lineage implemented.



**SGDC Metadata Workflow:**
